# Presentation slides on 9th Symposium of European Freshwater Sciences - SEFS 9 2015
This repository contains my slides presented at 9th Symposium of European Freshwater Sciences - SEFS 9 2015 conference, in Geneva, Switzerland on July 6, 2015. The title of the oral presentation is "Are aerial dispersers good adapters? Association of large scale spatial autocorrelation of semi-aquatic insect trait distribution with climate", reference number: 00570, session: RS02-Impacts of climate change on freshwater ecosystems. The slides were created using Latex Beamer package and mtheme.

# Abstract
Traits of freshwater organisms have shown potential to identify and disentangle impacts of stressors. Although several studies suggested traits that may indicate vulnerability to climate change, the empirical relationship between assemblage trait composition and climate has been rarely examined. We investigated and compared the association of the spatial autocorrelation of semi-aquatic insect assemblage trait composition with climate on a large scale (Germany). Six assumed climate-responsive traits from five different orders of semi-aquatic invertebrates that are areal dispersers were selected, comprising 782 species and 395 genera sampled in 4,752 stream sites during 2006 and 2007. We checked for the amount of spatial autocorrelation in trait composition that is associated with 35 bioclimatic indices. On an average, bioclimatic indices explained more than 50% of the significant spatial autocorrelation for the majority of the traits while explaining the highest amount of spatial autocorrelation for temperature preference and maximal body size, and the insect orders Plecoptera, Diptera and Ephemeroptera. We show that climate is the predominant driver of large scale spatial autocorrelation of the semi-aquatic insect assemblage trait composition and thus climate change may alter their spatial pattern, especially for large insects and insects inhabiting cold water streams.

An article on this topic is available here: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0130025.
